feat: support server-side i18n integration (#2558)
nuxt-community/nuxt-i18n: docs/content/4.API/1.composables.md

declare function useCookieLocale(): Ref<string>;
```

## `useTranslation`

The `useTranslation` composable returns the translation function.

::alert{type="warning"}
**This composable is experimental and server-side only.** 
::

Example:
```ts
export default defineEventHandler(async event => {
  const t = await useTranslation(event)
  return {
    hello: t('hello')
  }
})
```

> The locale is use by the translation function is the locale detected by the function defined in [`experimental.localeDetector` option](../options/misc#experimental).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The translation function uses the locale detected by the function defined in [`experimental.localeDetector`](../options/misc#experimental).
```

  - when you switch the locale with `setLocale`.
  - when the locale is switched with `<NuxtLink>`. for example, the route path resolved by `useSwitchLocalePath` or `$switchLocalePath`.

## `defineI18nLocaleDetector`

The `defineI18nLocaleDetector` defines a composable function to detect the locale on the server-side.

> The locale detector fucntion is used to detect the locale on server-side. It's called per request on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The locale detector function is used to detect the locale on the server-side, it is called per request on the server.
```

> You need return locale string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The locale detector must return a locale string.
```

::alert{type="warning"}
**This composable is experimental.** You need to configure filepath to [`experimental.localeDetector` option](../options/misc#experimental).
::

### Type

```ts
type LocaleConfig = {
  defaultLocale: Locale
  fallbackLocale: FallbackLocale
}
declare function defineI18nLocaleDetector(detector: (event: H3Event, config: LocaleConfig) => string): (event: H3Event, config: LocaleConfig) => string;
```

> for locale detecting example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a locale detector:
```

```ts
// Detect based on query, cookie, header
export default defineI18nLocaleDetector((event, config) => {
  const query = tryQueryLocale(event, { lang: '' })
  if (query) {
    return query.toString()
  }

  const cookie = tryCookieLocale(event, { lang: '', name: 'i18n_locale' })
  if (cookie) {
    return cookie.toString()
  }

  const header = tryHeaderLocale(event, { lang: '' })
  if (header) {
    return header.toString()
  }

  return config.defaultLocale
})
```

> In the locale detector function, you can use [`@intlify/h3` utilites](https://github.com/intlify/h3#%EF%B8%8F-utilites--helpers), these is auto imported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the locale detector function, you can use [`@intlify/h3` utilites](https://github.com/intlify/h3#%EF%B8%8F-utilites--helpers), these are auto imported.
```

### Parameters

#### `detector`

A function that is the locale detector, that has the following parameters:

- `event`

  **Type**: `H3Event`

>   A H3 event. see details [H3 API docs](https://www.jsdocs.io/package/h3#H3Event)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An H3 event. see details [H3 API docs](https://www.jsdocs.io/package/h3#H3Event)
```

- `config`

  **Type**: `{ defaultLocale: Locale; fallbackLocale: FallbackLocale; }`

  A locale config that is passed from Nitro. That has the below values:

>   - `defaultLocale`: This value is set by `defaultLocale` option of nuxt i18n option. if it's not set, that is set by `locale` that is loaded with `vueI18n` option (i18n.config). If these do not resolve the locale, use as default `'en-US'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `defaultLocale`: This value is set to the `defaultLocale` option of Nuxt i18n. If unset, it is set to the `locale` option loaded from the Vue I18n configuration (`i18n.config` file set on the `vueI18n` option). If neither of these are set, the default value of `'en-US'` is used.
```

>   - `fallbackLocale`: This value is set by `fallbackLocale` option that is loaded with `vueI18n` option (i18n.config). If do not resolve the fallback locale, use as default `false`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `fallbackLocale`: This value is set to the `fallbackLocale` option loaded from the Vue I18n configuration (`i18n.config` file set on the `vueI18n` option). If no fallback locale has been configured this will default to `false`.
```
